Feature list of SMF 1.0 (not yet finished)

General
	Uses PHP and MySQL.
	Comprehensive template system.
	Advanced permission and user management.
	Support for multiple languages.
	Open and well-documented source code.
	Designed for optimal performance and scalability.
	Multi-media output. (HTML5, XML, Atom...)
	Easy integration within webpages. (SSI, PHP)
	Multi-language support by one of the largest communities.
	Proper handling of read and unread topics/boards (not by time.)

Security
	All actions require a session based authorization code.
	All admin actions require the user's password (and do not rely solely on cookies.)
	Many user actions are time locked, preventing 'hammering'.
	The number of login attempts from a certain IP can be limited and time locked.

Forum settings
	Ability to display page creation time and query count per page.
	Put a board into maintenance mode, allowing only admins to login.
	Word censoring, either full word or partial.
	Ability to break up long words.

Boards and categories
	Group boards into collapsable categories.
	Set categories as non-collapsable.
	Reorder boards within categories, or reorder categories.
	Create child boards under other boards.
	Assign moderators to boards.
	Allow certain membergroups to access a board, including guests only.
	Configure permissions for each membergroup on the board level.
	Ability to indicate new posts to child boards but nothing new in parent.

Member registration
	Require registration before forum entrance.
	Require a user to agree to terms before they registers.
	Disable member registration (allowing only moderators to register people).
	Require email authentication by sending an authentication link.
	Require a moderator to approve registration.
	Register new members from the admin center.

Member navigation and authentication
	Several security checks during navigation.
	Password reminder option, by email with confirmation. (doesn't automatically reset your password.)
	Both cookie and session based authentication.
	Cookies can be set locally, globally or based on the hostname.
	Adjust expiration time of cookies.
	Show who is online and where they are.

Member tracking and tracing
	Sortable public memberlist (accessible by a permission.)
	Sortable admin memberlist.
	Admin member search (based on several criterions.)
	Show all (error) messages and IP addresses of a member. (track user)
	Show all (error) messages from an IP address/range. (track IP)
	See who's doing what (accessible by permission.)

Statistics
	Several board statistics (accessible by permission.)
	Tracking of member's online time in seconds.
	Tracking of topics, messages, members, and hits per day.
	Individual member statistics accessible from their profile.

News and announcements
	Ability to create announcement boards (members receive a notification of topics.)
	Member option to disable receiving announcements.
	Email or private message your members by membergroup.
	Show a news ticker or news fader.

Communication
	Ability to choose Sendmail or SMTP (with or without authentication.)
	Ability to send a topic to a friend.
	Ability to view a "printer friendly" version of topics.

membergroups
	Create membergroups to group members on permissions, access rights, and/or appearance.
	Assign several membergroups to a single member, with one membergroup as the primary group.
	Define membergroups that are auto-assigned based on the amount of posts a user has.
	Determine the maximum number of personal messages a membergroup is allowed to have by group.
	Assign graphical symbol(s) to a membergroup - by primary group.
	Determine which membergroups are allowed to access a board.

Banning
	Ban members based on their username, email address, IP address or hostname.
	Support of wildcards for email address, IP address and hostname.
	Include a ban reason (viewable for the banned user).
	Include a ban note (only viewable by the admins).
	Chose between full ban, post ban or register ban.
	Include an expiration time for bans.

External integration
	Integrate parts of forum software into existing website using SSI or PHP.
		Recent topics or posts.
		Recent news posts in a board.
		Recent polls.
		Several forum statistics.
		List of users online.
		The menu bar.
		News.
		Search.
		Login/logout.
		Today's events/birthdays/holidays.
	Export forum data using XML/RSS
		Latest members.
		News.
		Recent posts.

Theme and Templating
	Ability to allow or disallow your users to select their own theme.
	Ability to reset all of your members to a certain theme.
	Ability to install a new theme via your administration center.
	XHTML 1.0 and CSS 2.0 compliant.
	Admin can add smileys and smiley sets.
	Members can choose which smiley set they wish to use.
	Themes can be installed by way of the "latest and greatest themes" panel.
	SSI can have and show layers and the like from the template system.

Posting Features
	Spell Check.
	Quick Reply
		Members can disable it.
		Can be used with "Quote".
		Also contains "Spell Check".
	Vast number of "bulletin board codes" to use.
	Time allowed before "Last Edited" appears.
	'Insert Quote' feature on reply screen for all previous posts.

Polls
	Can be added or removed to existing topics.
	Ability to set expiration date.
	Ability to hide results till expiration of poll.
	Ability to hide results untill after people have voted.
	Ability to determine how many votes a user may cast.
	Polls can have up to 256 options.

Attachments
	Allowed on a per member group or board basis.
	The filename can be encrypted to increase the security (so you can upload .php files, etc.)
	Ability to restrict such that only registered members can view them (disables hotlinking, mostly.)
	Images can be embedded into posts.

Calendar Support
	Shows Birthdays, Events and Holidays.
	Display calendar stuff on board index.
	Link an existing topic to the calendar.
	Allow only certain members/groups post events.
	Event poster can edit event.
	Events can span multiple days.

Moderation Tools
	Ability to Merge/Split topics.
	Ability to lock a topic
		Topics which are locked by an administrator can not unlocked by anyone else.
	Ability to allow members to use moderation on just topics they posted.
	"Report to moderator" link.
	Delete or modify posts.
	Lock, unlock, move, or delete topics.
	Merge or split topics.
	Sticky or unsticky topics.
	Link or unlink topics to the calendar.
	Recycle bin/board for all deleted topics and posts.
	Moderation log which shows moderation activity and disallows log removal outside of 1 day.

User Profiles and User Options
	Ability to hide your email address from the public.
	Select their favorite theme among the activated forum themes.
	Select their smiley set from the ones available.
	Email notification
		New topics per board.
		Single topics.
		Private messages.
	Login in invisible mode.
	Options to hide other members' avatars and signatures.
	Ability to download and resize avatars.
	Personal text, avatar, signature, and all the nicities of forums can be used and are kept up to date in all your posts.

User Resources
	Icons for topics you've posted to.
	Show new replies to *your* posts.
	Collapsable 'Additional Options' on post screen.
	Ability to view most recent messages.
	List all topics that have new replies since your last visit.
	See who is browsing the same boards or topics as you.
	Topics that span multiple pages have the page numbers listed as well as an "all" link.